Interpolated strings (#390)
dotnet/csharpstandard: standard/standard-library.md

    }
}
```

## C.4 Format Specifications

The meaning of the formats, as used in interpolated string expressions (§interpolated-string-expressions), are defined in ISO/IEC 23271:2012. For convenience the following text is copied from the description of `System.IFormatable`.

**This text is informative.**

A *format* is a string that describes the appearance of an object when
it is converted to a string. Either standard or custom formats can be used. A
standard format takes the form *Axx*, where *A* is a single
alphabetic character called the *format specifier*, and *xx* is an integer between zero and 99 inclusive, called the *precision specifier*. The format specifier controls the type
of formatting applied to the value being represented as a string. The
*precision specifier* controls the number 

> of significant digits or decimal places in the string, if applicable. [*Note:* For the list of standard format specifiers, see the

Reviewer: This note needs to be changed to use the format we use elsewhere. (Currently the converter thinks it's a link.) I'd suggest making it a new paragraph - I'm not sure how "inline note which isn't in a list" works at the moment.

> of significant digits or decimal places in the string, if applicable. [*Note:* For the list of standard format specifiers, see the
> table below. Note that a given data type, such as `System.Int32`, might not support one
> or more of the standard format specifiers.]

Reviewer 2: Suggestion for formatting:

```suggestion
of significant digits or decimal places in the string, if applicable. 

> *Note:* For the list of standard format specifiers, see the table below. Note that a given data type, such as `System.Int32`, might not support one or more of the standard format specifiers. *end note*
```

> [*Note:* When a format includes symbols that vary by culture, such as the currency

Reviewer: Ditto (note format)

> [*Note:* When a format includes symbols that vary by culture, such as the currency
> symbol included by the ‘C’ and ‘c’ formats, a formatting object supplies the
> actual characters used in the string representation. A method might include a
> parameter to pass a `System.IFormatProvider` object that supplies a
> formatting object, or the method might use the default formatting object, which
> contains the symbol definitions for the current culture. The current culture
> typically uses the same set of symbols used system-wide by default. In the Base
> Class Library, the formatting object for system-supplied numeric types is a
> `System.Globalization.NumberFormatInfo` instance. For `System.DateTime` instances, a 
> `System.Globalization.DateTimeFormatInfo` is
> used.]

Reviewer 2: Suggestion to use the standard *note* format:

```suggestion
> *Note:* When a format includes symbols that vary by culture, such as the currencysymbol included by the ‘C’ and ‘c’ formats, a formatting object supplies the actual characters used in the string representation. A method might include a parameter to pass a `System.IFormatProvider` object that supplies a formatting object, or the method might use the default formatting object, which contains the symbol definitions for the current culture. The current culture typically uses the same set of symbols used system-wide by default. In the Base Class Library, the formatting object for system-supplied numeric types is a `System.Globalization.NumberFormatInfo` instance. For `System.DateTime` instances, a `System.Globalization.DateTimeFormatInfo` is used. *end note*
```

    }
}
```

## C.4 Format Specifications

The meaning of the formats, as used in interpolated string expressions (§interpolated-string-expressions), are defined in ISO/IEC 23271:2012. For convenience the following text is copied from the description of `System.IFormatable`.

**This text is informative.**

A *format* is a string that describes the appearance of an object when
it is converted to a string. Either standard or custom formats can be used. A
standard format takes the form *Axx*, where *A* is a single
alphabetic character called the *format specifier*

> , and *xx* is an integer between zero and 99 inclusive, called the *precision specifier*. The format specifier controls the type

Reviewer: Move the comma to the previous line, here and below? (In general we might want to rewrap this paragraph.)

Author: See below…

Reviewer: Resolving as we are going to keep just the XML as-is.

Reviewer: Unresolving due to an extra space before the comma being incorrect.

of formatting applied to the value being represented as a string. The

> *precision specifier* controls the number 

Reviewer: Precision specifiers are only relevant for numeric format strings, of course... there are standard formats for date/time values too.

Reviewer: (I appreciate this is a copy/paste job, and we may well not want to bother changing it at all.)

Author: I too pondered over how much to change this. The original style and formatting doesn't even fit the rest of the CLI Standard, but then it is distributed as an XML file that was mechanically produced from CLR documentation so it wasn't really noticable. I mainly did a mechanical translation into markdown and then a few hand tweaks so it's still recognisable as the source material.

This is the largest single block of format specs I spotted but it is about numeric types, the closing para directs the reader to `Enum` and `DateTime`. How much to include?

I think TG2 needs to ask whether it should foster (not adopt) the whole of the standard library docs while TG3 is in hibernation, to be returned when TG3 wakes up. That would of course address the "how much" issue, and would allow TG2 to remove §C.3 as it would be empty and TG2 would no longer have to fudge and pretend these the types in §C.3 have been Standardised…

Reviewer 2: Hmm. I'd be concerned unless we can expand the membership in TG2, including some people who have more expertise in this area.

of significant digits or decimal places in the string, if applicable. [*Note:* For the list of standard format specifiers, see the
table below. Note that a given data type, such as `System.Int32`
, might not support one
or more of the standard format specifiers.]

[*Note:* When a format includes symbols that vary by culture, such as the currency

> symbol included by the ‘C’ and ‘c’ formats, a formatting object supplies the

Reviewer: Do we want to use curly quotes here?

Author: Keep going…

Reviewer: Resolving not to change.

actual characters used in the string representation. A method might include a
parameter to pass a `System.IFormatProvider` object that supplies a
formatting object, or the method might use the default formatting object, which
contains the symbol definitions for the current culture. The current culture
typically uses the same set of symbols used system-wide by default. In the Base
Class Library, the formatting object for system-supplied numeric types is a
`System.Globalization.NumberFormatInfo` instance. For `System.DateTime` instances, a 
`System.Globalization.DateTimeFormatInfo` is
used.]

The following table describes the standard format specifiers and associated formatting
object members that are used with numeric data types in the Base Class
Library.

> <table>

Reviewer: I seem to remember that I make very specific assumptions about the formats of tables in the Word converter. This may very well not work at the moment.

Author: I think it looks like the other tables, and the Word Convertor didn't barf but I've not seen its output…

Reviewer: Jon to attach a screenshot after fetching and running the Word converter.

Reviewer: Nope, the Word converter fails entirely for this. This will take a fair amount of work... I'll see if the same table converter that manages to handle the table in the unsafe types section would work here - but it does mean a rather larger tweak of the XML we're "copying" the content from.

format.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><p><code>X</code></p>
<p><code>x</code></p></td>
<td><strong>Hexadecimal Format:</strong> (This format is valid only when
specified with integral data types.) Used for string representations of numbers in Base
16. The precision determines the minimum number of digits in
the string. If the precision specifies more digits than the number contains,
the number is left-padded with zeros. The case of the format specifier
(‘X’ or ‘x’) determines whether upper case or lower case
letters are used in the hexadecimal representation.</td>
</tr>
</table>

If the numerical value is a `System.Single` or `System.Double` with a value of
`NaN`,
`PositiveInfinity`, or `NegativeInfinity`, the format 
specifier is ignored, and one of the following is returned: `System.Globalization.NumberFormatInfo.NaNSymbol`, `System.Globalization.NumberFormatInfo.PositiveInfinitySymbol`, or `System.Globalization.NumberFormatInfo.NegativeInfinitySymbol`.

A custom format is any string specified as a format that
is not in the form of a standard format string (Axx) described above. The
following table describes the characters that are used in constructing custom
formats.

> <table>

Reviewer: Another table for Jon to screenshot

<p><code>"ABC"</code></p></td>
<td><strong>Literal string:</strong> Characters enclosed in single or double quotes are
copied to the output string literally, and do not affect formatting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>;</code> (semicolon)</td>
<td><strong>Section separator:</strong> The ‘;’ character is used to separate sections for
positive, negative, and zero numbers in the format string. (This feature
is described in detail below.)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Other</td>
<td><strong>All other characters:</strong> All other characters are stored in the output
string as literals in the position in which they
appear.</td>
</tr>
</table>

Note that for fixed-point format strings (strings not containing an ‘E0’,
‘E+0’, ‘E-0’, ‘e0’, ‘e+0’, or ‘e-0’), numbers are rounded to as many decimal
places as there are Zero or Digit placeholders to the right of the decimal
separator. If the custom format does not contain a decimal separator, the number is
rounded to the nearest integer. If the number has more digits than there are
Zero or Digit placeholders to the left of the decimal separator, the extra
digits are copied to the output string immediately before the first Zero or
Digit placeholder.

> A custom format can contain

Reviewer: Again, this is all about numeric format strings.

Author: Look two comments back
